# Modern-Day-Tools-of-Neo-Colonial-Influence-Courts-Capital-Code
Colonization is not a historical concept, it is an active perpetrator. Colonial powers historically controlled African territory through conquest and direct governance, but their ‘influence’ spread through courts, capital, and code. The Global South is still constrained by structures created for its administration rather than its empowerment. Contemporary systems of control have instead morphed into digital infrastructures stifling African dissent, financial resource and capital exploitation of turmoil, and international courts that punish African leadership while disregarding Western atrocities. Reducing these patterns to merely data biases and discrepancies would also ignore the larger issue of an impartial, weaponized global power structure that historically and concurrently affects Africa. 

To make the case that contemporary neo-colonialism is a system that is maintained by design rather than an exception, our project examines three mechanisms of modern-day neo-colonialism: the International Criminal Court, resource and trade networks, and Western-controlled tech platforms. 

The International Criminal Court has long been considered the global arbitrator of justice. Yet, 90% of the charges that it has made since its inception have focused on African Leaders. Africa leads the list of ICC defendants, although making up a small percentage (20%) of ICC member states. This disparity indicated not only the persistence of colonial reasoning but also the unfair portrayal of the African government as fundamentally illegitimate and in need of international supervision, unable to possess political sovereignty. There is an evident lack of neutrality that holds a racially divided global order in which those in positions of power decide who is protected and who faces prosecution. 

As their leaders face prosecution, the economy cripples dependent on the hand that feeds it. The continent rich in oil, gold, and natural resources continues to lose potentially billions of dollars annually as a result of extractive trade agreements and foreign-owned enterprises. Most rare earth minerals, oil, and metals are processed and make money overseas. African states are structurally unable to create self-sustaining systems of wealth or technological growth as foreign firms control contracts, exports, and leadership while African economies are left to deal with environmental deterioration and labor exploitation alongside civil violence and insecure governance. Their economic dependency is not an independent result of bad leadership, but rather a growth from the roots of colonial trading models that persist under the pretense of development and globalization. Many instances of which are simply capitalist colonialism under a different name. 

The third and most recent frontier of control is a result of the emergence of the digital world. Africans cannot speak, organize, or oppose without the say-so of Western tech giants. Facebook and other platforms have frequently and systematically blocked activist content while fostering the spread of false information and the amplification of hate speech. A new method of conquering and dividing that is unmatched as real-world violence has escalated in Libya, Ethiopia, Nigeria, etc. Not to mention the internet shut-downs imposed by African governments and supplied by Western-owned telecom infrastructure, depriving entire populations of banking, communication, and international exposure. These shutdowns are nostalgic reminiscences of colonial strategies of stifling dissent that mediate speech, visibility, and economic potential: digital colonialism. 

Together, code, capital, and courts form the scaffolding of the 21st-century empire—one that has never left the Western sphere. 
>>>>>>> 3d1d8add661442b09764b1ba78c4c28e0ea790cc
